aleppo:Mario Aleppo
andrelouw:André Louw
benin:Adolfo Benin
berndwuebben:Bernd Johannes Wuebben
cduminuco:Cristina Duminuco
chiforna:Chiara Fornarola
chris_kenyon:Chris Kenyon
dicesare:Nicolas Di Césaré
drjoe:Joseph Wang
dzuki:Maxim Sokolov
eddelbuettel:Dirk Eddelbuettel
enri:Enrico Sirola
ericehlers:Eric Ehlers
ericehlers3:Eric Ehlers
fdv1:Francois du Vignaud
giorfa:Giorgio Facchinetti
klausspanderen:Klaus Spanderen
kmanzoni:Katiuscia Manzoni
lballabio:Luigi Ballabio
marcobianchetti:Marco Bianchetti
mariopucci:Mario Pucci
markjoshi:Mark Joshi
marmar:Marco Marchioro
nando:Ferdinando Ametrano
nehal1974:Nehal Patel
neilfirth:Neil Firth
nielses:Niels Elken Sønderby
pippoj:Nicola Jean
plamen_neykov:Plamen Neykov
rolandlichters:Roland Lichters
sadrejeb:Sadruddin Rejeb
sigmud:Matteo Gallivanoni
stochastix:Jens Thiel
s_frasson:Silvia Frasson
