The starting point of a QuantLib guided tour is the web site:
http://quantlib.org. The home page itself is a small introduction;
other useful pages include the user manual at
http://quantlib.org/html/index.html and an overview of the project at
http://quantlib.org/html/overview.html. The overview page needs to be
updated, and I'm going to write an updated version which I will send
to you in few hours. The bottom line is that with QuantLib we're going
to provide a benchmark _framework_ for quantitative finance. On the
short term we're not concerned with very advanced topic, as much as we
want to provide a common framework for numerical methods in finance
(mainly Finite Differences and Monte Carlo).  QuantLib aims to be the
tool-kit all quants can use and refer to.

From the home page I'll guide you through two tracks, one for QuantLib
users and the other for QuantLib developers.

1. The QuantLib user track

To get assured that QuantLib is for real a new user can be interested
in taking a look at the project statistics, provided by SourceForge,
the generous host of the QuantLib project and thousands of other open
source projects. The statistics
(http://sourceforge.net/project/stats/index.php?report=months&group_id=12740)
show a steady increase of interest for QuantLib. After few calm
months, the new 0.3.3 release has put QuantLib in the highest 10% of
SourceForge active projects.

To get QuantLib one should download it from
http://quantlib.org/download.shtml. For a Windows user the file
QuantLib-0.3.3-full-inst.exe is enough since it includes source code,
examples, documentation in multiple formats, etc. Through Start Menu |
Programs | QuantLib the user can access documentation, web site, and
the source code. Microsoft Visual Studio project files are provided,
the Borland command line compiler is supported ('make' in the QuantLib
directory will compile the code and run the examples.)

A Unix user would probably download the source code
QuantLib-0.3.3-src.tar.gz and documentation in html
(QuantLib-0.3.3-docs-html.tar.gz) or PDF
(QuantLib-0.3.3-docs-refman.pdf.gz) format. The supported compiler is
gcc 2.95.x, 3.0.x and later. By the way, the Linux Debian distribution
already includes QuantLib, and RPM are available for Red Heat,
Mandrake, etc.

The first part of the QuantLib manual, QuantLib-0.3.3-docs-refman, is
the User Manual. It includes 3 section, "An introduction to QuantLib",
"QuantLib Components", and "Examples". The User Manual is a required
reading for someone approaching QuantLib. The section "An introduction
to QuantLib" is very similar in spirit to this guided tour, so I do
not repeat here what you can read there.

Since QuantLib is a C++ library its usage is mainly for C++
developers. Anyway it can already be used in few higher level
environments as the Python, Ruby, and Scheme
languages. QuantLib-Python, QuantLib-Ruby, QuantLib-Guile, and
QuantLib-Scheme are available from the download page. More extension
are available in their early stage: Excel, R, and Mathematica. Other
such extensions are under consideration. See
http://quantlib.org/extensions.shtml for a list.

QuantLibXL, the Excel add-in, while in its early stage of development
will probably play a major role in the QuantLib diffusion and public
recognition, because of the wide-spread usage of Excel in financial
modelling/prototyping.

At this point a QuantLib user might consider to join the QuantLib
mailing lists, or at least read the archives (see
http://quantlib.org/mailinglists.shtml)

The line between a QuantLib user and a QuantLib developer is thin:
usually the users are themselves developers who use the library in
their own projects.

As it is often the case the users cross the line and give us feedback
about the library: bug fixing, suggestion, etc.

2. The QuantLib developer track

From time to time a QuantLib user asks to get involved in the QuantLib
development. The template letter I send as reply is available on-line
at
http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/quantlib/QuantLib/dev_tools/newdeveloperintro.txt?rev=HEAD&content-type=text/vnd.viewcvs-markup

This "new developer intro" letter introduce the reader to the
development conventions and tools. The main tool is CVS (see
http://quantlib.org/cvs.shtml), that allows for concurrent,
distributed development and access of the source code base.

The SourceForge QuantLib project page
http://sourceforge.net/projects/quantlib is the "technical" home page
from which the Bug Tracker, Features Request Tracker, Patch Tracker,
CVS on-line browsing, and more can be accessed.

The main QuantLib design decisions are discussed in public using the
quantlib-users mailing list (a private mailing list quantlib-dev, for
QuantLib developers, is used only for technical communication between
active QuantLib developers). Our favorite approach is to publish on
the web site a QuEP (QuantLib Enhancement Proposal). You can read all
QuEPs at http://quantlib.org/quep.shtml

Well, the above tour will probably require some time. The next level
would/could be to read and discuss the actual source code.
